# TIME'S UP :)

### YOUR LAST PUSH WILL BE CONSIDERED

- - -

# Homework assignment n3
**Computational Visual Design Lab ([CVDLab](https://github.com/cvdlab))**  
**"Roma Tre" University, Rome, Italy**  
**Computational Graphics 2013**

- - -

# Introduction

The theme of the homework is is the construction of a virtual scene containing one or more mountainous areas, one or more lakes and one or more human settlements.


## Exercise 1

A digital terrain model (DTM) is normally defined as a map that associates the vertices of a simplicial decomposition of a 2D rectangle (corresponding to a geographical map) with three coordinate functions x(u,v), y(u,v), z(u,v), where x(u,v) and y(u,v) are the selectors of the first and second coordinate of the vertices, and z(u,v) provides the height (altitude) of vertices. This one can be obtained by adding or subtracting a (relatively small) random number to the altitude values.
HINT: To provide the initial values of altitude it is recommended to use either some mathematical function of two variables, or a surface generated from a few control points. The random correction of altitude must obviously be executed in a second computing stage.

Produce a model of mountainous terrain using the approach described above.

## Exercise 2

A lake can be obtained by adding a colored parallelepiped (green-water) to a digital terrain model, in such a way that the height of the parallelepiped gets higher than the altitude of the bottom-valley pattern.

A suitable lake model should be added to the mountains defined by the previous exercise.

## Exercise 3

The model of a coniferous forest can be generated by building a very simplified tree model. The tree contains a cylinder and cone (with parametric height, radius and angular discretization).
The tree model must be instantiated several times using as a translation vector on the scene the three numbers generated by the coordinated functions of the digital terrain model.

Select one or more subsets of the ground to place the wooded areas on the slopes of the mountainous scene, adding a random term to increase the naturalness of the placement.

NB. You can complicate the model of the tree at will to make it less "mechanical", for example correcting with random coefficients the height, radius and angular discretization parameter of the crown.


## Exercise 4

Build near the edge of the mountainous area a model (in appropriate scale) of a human settlement, randomly assembling several parallel rectangular buildings (of varying heights and sizes). The settlement must be produced in local coordinates in function of some parameters, and then placed on the scene in at least two different instances, as produced by different generator parameters.

The student is free to select any number and meaning of the generator parameters.

## Exercise 5

The previous model of human settlement must also contain a simplified road system consisting of two families of orthogonal rectangles.
Each generated village will therefore consists of a set of parallel parallelepipeds (buildings) and  mutually orthogonal rectangles (the roads).

## Exercise 6

Write a function to export a LAR model, which is a pair (V, FV), where V is an array of points and FV is the compact representation of the  characteristic matrix of 2D faces, in the file format [OBJ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file).

# Assignment delivery

The files .py are optional.
For each exercise you must produce a corresponding file `exercise1.js`, `exercise1.py`, etc.
All the .js file must be enclosed within a directory `javascript`.
All the .py file must be enclosed within the optional directory `python`.
Such directories must be contained in a directory entitled `2013-06-07`,
pushed into the personal GitHub repository of the student: [https://github.com/cvdlab-cg/xxxxxx](https://github.com/cvdlab-cg/)
where `xxxxxx` is the student ID  (matricola).

```
+- xxxxxx
|
+- 2013-06-07
  |
  +- javascript
  | |
  | +- exercise1.js
  | +- exercise2.js
  | +- exercise3.js
  | +- exercise4.js
  | +- exercise5.js
  | +- exercise6.js
  |
  +- python
    |
    +- exercise1.py
    +- exercise2.py
    +- exercise3.py
    +- exercise4.py
    +- exercise5.py
    +- exercise6.py
```

The delivery is strictly required within 24 hours from the publication of the homework.

# Tips

#### Commit and push as frequently as you can


